well the Israeli military says it's
recovered the bodies of six captives
from a tunnel under Rafa in southern
Gaza Hamas says they were killed in an
Israeli strike but Israel says they were
found with bullet wounds to the head and
other parts of the body one of the Dead
captives has been identified as HH
Goldberg Poland is an Israeli American
his family confirmed the 23-year-old's
death in a statement they've been among
the most high-profile Israelis lobbying
the government to bring home the
captives they've addressed last month's
Democratic National convention and the
United Nations here's what hmer said in
a statement the one who kills our people
daily is the occupation with American
weapons and the bodies of prisoners
found in Gaza were only killed by
Zionist bombing President Joe Biden must
stop supporting this enemy with money
and weapons and pressure the occupation
to end its aggression
immediately I'll just he as hamut has
reported from Israel now Al jazer has
been banned by Israel's government and
Ham's joining his in our studio here in
Doha good to have you with us H just
talk us through what's been happening
with regard to the the discovery of
these captives first of all well there
have been several protesters that have
taken to the streets you're looking at
thousands of Israelis that are
demonstrating against Netanyahu but
let's talk about what Netanyahu said in
his statement before we get into the
demonstrations he said that Hamas is the
one who killed the captives meaning that
they're not interested in a deal but if
you look at what the Israeli public has
been saying it's that Netanyahu himself
is not interested neither willing or
capable to enter into a deal saying that
he is prolonging the war for personal
and political gain you have members of
the opposition who are calling for
change you have also the country's
defense minister yoav Galant who has
sparred with Netanyahu in highlevel
security cabinet meetings saying that
perhaps Netanyahu should not have such a
stance about the red lines that he has
that maybe he should lessen his stance
so that there can be a deal that is
achieved But ultimately no matter the
pressure that is facing Netanyahu he
seems to be unfazed and has maintained
that military pressure is the only way
to bring about the release of those
captives and I just want to add that
some of the captives whose bodies were
discovered were actually supposed to be
on the list of captives to be released
in the first phase of any sort of deal
and according to Israeli Army
intelligence they were alive just a
couple of days ago so there is huge
anger throughout Israeli iety because of
this am to stay with me because I want
to talk to you about this public
response and pressure is growing on
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu as ham was just saying to
agree a ceasefire deal leading to the
release of the remaining captives
relatives of those held in Gaza have
joined other protesters at a rally
outside Benjamin netanyahu's office in
West Jerusalem they're demanding a deal
to free the remaining 97 Israelis
believe to be in Gaza around a third of
them are presumed dead we are very very
sad and very very angry about our
government that all they does is care
about their position in the government
it doesn't care about the hostages and
doesn't do anything in order to release
them the deal should have been signed
long time ago and these people for sure
like many others could have been saved
uh it's an unimaginable H feelings and
they they were so close and some of them
were supposed to be out in the first
part of the
deal H so we are really really
heartbroken
it's a very sad
morning it's supposed to be a happy
morning when all the little kids go to
school but it turned out to be one of
the most devastating days in the last 11
months well a general strike's been
called from Monday to protest against
the Israeli government opposition leader
y laed has called for government
shutdowns the strike on Monday is also
expected to impact Israel's main airport
in Tel let's go back to hamut who's with
us in the studio so there seems to be
even more pressure now we're seeing
trade unions getting involved in this
and supporting the call for a ceasefire
the call for the captives to be returned
how much support is there amongst
members of the Israeli public well there
is huge support for the labor union and
there's huge support for the protest
movement so let's talk about this labor
strike that is going to take place on
Monday starting at around 800 a.m. this
labor union the hist is the largest in
Israel it is is responsible for most of
the Trade Federation and most of the
economics so they are incredibly
organized and they have the power to
really do damage to Israel's economy
with this shutdown the greatest and most
high-profile of those shutdowns is going
to be at Ben Goron airport which is the
main hub for travel in Israel so that's
going to start at 8:00 a.m. a
spokesperson for the union said that a
list of all other organizations and
businesses will be released later today
but you also have is's opposition who
was supporting this who was saying that
people should be taking to the streets
against Israel's government the head of
the labor union himself the chief is
going to be at these protests and is
encouraging people at the the day of the
strike to go demonstrate in the streets
saying that he's going to join them
saying that a deal must supersede
everything else the last time we saw a
strike like this from the labor union
was around a year and a half ago when
the country was protesting against
judicial reforms and it actually made an
impact it did have an impact because it
shut down Israel's economy and that sent
a message to Israel's government to do
things differently with their proposed
bills and they're hoping that this time
the message that the labor union can
send can be to push the government in
the direction of a deala thank you very
much indeed hamud with us in Doha well
Daniel liit is the grandson of retired
Israeli journalist Aid liit who was
taken captive during the October 7th
attack he's joining us live now from Tel
Aviv thank you very much indeed for
being with us on Al jazer ham was just
explained to us the level of pressure
that is growing within Israel to find a
ceasefire deal find a way of getting the
captives home and of course she
mentioned that the last time that there
was such a significant protest it
started to affect the economy and that
had a knock on effect with the
government is there any confidence that
you might have that the degree of
protest that you're seeing now might
actually finally bring some action from
the Netanyahu
Coalition so uh first of all uh speaking
about what happened yesterday is really
devastated it's devastating that uh
first of all an American citizen who've
been hurt and injured by a Grenade on
October 7 H Goldberg and after that
somehow succeeded to survive more than
300 days been murdered in captivity and
shot together with two other women I
think that is a a horrible situation and
a war crime and we are going out because
we had more than about 12 hostages that
died in the last uh months and came back
that been alive there and uh for us it's
our right and we have to go out to the
streets to make the pressure on our
government but without the world
pressure we will not succeed we H we
must have the pressure of the President
Biden we must have the pressure of the
katari Prime Minister and she Muhammad
Alani aisi Kamal abas everyone to make
make the pressure of all sides it's not
only one side to take a deal and uh we
really need that and with our pressure
the internal pressure which we are the
citizens of Israel and we will do
everything to bring back our hostages we
need the help from the world to do the
same pressure over Hamas because
murdering and executing hostages there
is nothing that is connected to any um
religion any society any culture and
it's really against the Quran and
betraying it I we should point out of
course that hamas's position with regard
to these captives is that they were
killed as a result of Israeli bombing
until the bodies are actually it has
been proven that they've been shot we
got the IDF final uh resolution about it
and those been murdered I don't know why
there but that's the situation for me
personally I'm very worried because I
have a great grandfather there he's my
grand father and the great-grandfather
of my daughter the only hostage which is
a great-grandfather in the world we
cannot expect old men in captivity Hamas
said things went out of control on
October 7th but if things went out of
control you have to return those
hostages the old men are something so
holy for the Quran and for everyone and
not bringing them back releasing them
unconditionally is it's a scene and I'm
so worried about my grandfather is
almost a ear there and he's someone who
did all his life everything for
coexistence and for peace I feel like
the peace is held in a in a tunnel in
Gaza and it's devastating for me Carmel
Gat was as well with me in school and uh
I can't imagine that she died she could
be here it's such a devastating moment
for everyone in the world which uh are
talking about Humanity critics of
Benjamin Netanyahu and the Coalition of
course including members of the US
government in the past have said that
Benjamin nanyu himself has been one of
the stumbling blocks to finding a
solution to this this war um is there
any indication that you have had given
the fact that you've had interaction
with us officials as well as Israeli
officials that that position that is
being held by the Netanyahu Coalition
may change as the pressure grows
I believe that uh it can change I
believe that after what happened
yesterday only from the uh suffer we are
suffering here so much and we are going
out to show it we are not protesting
against we are protesting for the
release of the hostages to make a deal
because finally this deal will bring
back our beloved one will end the suffer
of the gazin who should go out as well
and protest against Hamas because
because if Hamas will release all the
hostages it will end tomorrow and as
well we want to go back to our homes we
are displaced as well my mom she's
displaced all my community is completely
burned all the houses are impossible to
live in I'm coming from kibuts n Ro
Place who did everything for coexistence
and believed in peace and all this place
we still have now 29 hostages only from
the community of near o from the bibas
family the kuna family and to all the
families in IR Ro which we just can't
continue and we cannot even fight
anymore after the horror happened in N
Ro I was very lucky that my mom and my
daughter left n Ro on Friday October 6th
at 700 p.m. but that's not the story of
my community it's a community who
believed in peace that Hamas ruined on
October 7 to
ashes Daniel lifes we appreciate you
talking to us in aler thank you very
much indeed
make sure to subscribe to our channel to
get the latest news from Al jazer